You know, a few days ago, Whoop
announced it's hiring more than 600
people, nearly doubling its 800 person
workforce. Will OffEed, the CEO, said,
"Right now, companies are debating
whether to hire more people or just
invest in AI." And we are doing both.
Ahmed is making the most important
strategic bet of 2026. And the boards
and leadership teams I work with, the
ones actually making these decisions,
not the ones performing for analysts,
increasingly agree with him. The doom
narrative lives in the media. Inside the
rooms where it matters, the smartest
operators are asking a different
question. What would it take for our
people to work differently and build
what we couldn't build before? This
video is all about how you answer that
question. And I am going to lay out for
you six different unlocks. All of them
are people focused. I talk about what
you need to be as a person, how you
change your mindset, how you think
differently in the age of AI. And most
of all, I'm not going to focus on hope.
I know that sounds depressing, but I'll
tell you why. Hope is a plan that we
don't have validation for. Instead, I'm
going to focus on structural unlocks
that deliver extraordinary value because
AI is compressing the cost of
intelligence. We are going to talk about
why hope is rational. We're going to
talk about why these unlocks enable
people to do what we've always dreamed
of. And I know that sounds very pie in
the sky, but we're going to get super
practical with it. Look, I am not blind
to the fact that every conversation
about AI right now starts and ends with
how many jobs disappear. And I know the
experts talk about it. And that starting
point, I think, is blinding us to an
opportunity set that is staggeringly
large and almost completely unexamined.
The companies that break out of the doom
frame first are not just going to get a
head start here. They're going to get
the whole race because everybody else is
still arguing about headcount while the
customers are going to move to the
companies that dream bigger. So that's
the question getting the air time,
right? How many fewer people do we need?
It can feel sophisticated. You can model
it in a spreadsheet and it's the wrong
question. The right question is one I
don't see people asking. Given that
execution cost just dropped by an order
of magnitude, what can we do right now
that was previously impossible? The cost
reduction frame assumes a fixed pi of
value and it optimizes for how
efficiently you capture your slice. The
ambition frame assumes the pi was
artificially constrained by the cost of
execution and that removing that
constraint creates a larger opportunity
than all of the savings you could get
the other way. The history of tech tells
us which of those frames wins. When
steel got cheap, the industry expanded
into skyscrapers, into railroads, into
cars. When computing got cheap, it
created personal computing and the
internet and mobile and cloud. And when
distribution got cheap, media companies
that played defense got destroyed by
companies that built new categories. The
pattern has a name, Juban's paradox.
When efficiency increases, consumption
goes up, not down. Because cheaper
resources make new applications viable.
AI is the most dramatic efficiency
improvement in the history of work. If
Jan's paradox applies and every
structural indicator says it does, did
you know there's more software engineers
out there now than there were a year
ago, two years ago, the number of
software engineering jobs is up. Just a
sidebar, if Jieven's paradox applies,
the total demand for insight, judgment,
creativity, and domain expertise is
about to explode. Yeah, the cutters will
be pocketing the savings, but the people
betting on the paradox are the people
who are going to win. And so, what I'm
going to share with you are six unlocks
that give you a picture of what the
future looks like. And remember, for
each of these, these are illustrative.
These are all true, but it's not the
full universe of what is true. So,
unlock number one, learn how to go fast.
The iteration rate that we have now with
AI is going to change the mechanics of
strategy. When you can compress an
entire product iteration cycle as we can
today from months to days, everything is
different. You don't get a faster
version of old strategy. You have a
different relationship between what you
understand about the market and what you
can do. Right now, a product bet takes
maybe six months, maybe three months if
you're lucky. So, you have two to four
options a year to get it right. The cost
of being wrong is a quarter at best.
This is why the dominant strategy in
corporate America is copy the other guy.
The iteration cost is so high that
exploration is irrational. Now, compress
that cycle to days. If you can get
something in a single working session,
which by the way you can, Cursor's
February 2026 cloud agents update lets
developers spin up to 20 parallel agents
on isolated cloud VMs or virtual
machines simultaneously. Every single
one working on a project, a separate
branch, testing changes, opening pull
requests. About a third of Cursor's code
and pull requests are written by agents
operating autonomously. And that number
is going up. What happens when you can
run 200 learning cycles a year? What
happens to your people when you can have
them run 200 learning cycles a year?
Because it's the people conversation I
want to focus on here. The tech already
enables this. The reason this isn't
everywhere is because the people aren't
there yet. And the people aren't there
because either they don't believe they
can go fast. they think they'll get
wrists slapped or because you haven't
given them the infrastructure as a
leader or because they don't dare to
dream that big. And so when I talk with
leaders about what is going on in AI,
it's a pretty frank conversation with
them because so much of this starts with
their ability to empower people to go
quickly to recognize that their old
paradigms will shift fundamentally if
they have the courage to let their
people be entrepreneurial. And it's such
an unlock because if you go fast, you
start to think creatively about other
things you can go fast with, like
internal processes that need to change.
Right now, startups die because they
exhaust their funding before they
exhaust their hypothesis. If you drop
the cost of testing each hypothesis by a
couple of orders of magnitude, the
runway equation changes. It becomes
rational to test so much more. The human
role in this new world is not smaller,
it's bigger. You need people who can
generate good hypothesis, who have deep
customer intuition, who have contrarian
market insight, who have creative
vision. Today, those people spend 80% of
their energy shephering a single bet
through the organization. Tomorrow,
they're generating and evaluating 10
bets a week. The bottleneck shifts from
can we build it to should we build it?
And that's a human question. This is the
story I see in so many AI native
organizations. They are changing their
idea of what is possible. and it is
unlocking for them a future that they
can only get to with speed. Unlock
number two is recognizing that the
equation for builders has fundamentally
changed. This is an unlock that will
reshape the entire economy. It's bigger
than anything else I'm going to talk
about here today. It will change our
civilization. It's very simple. Right
now, we have something like 35 million
developers, maybe a few more, maybe 40
million. And we have hundreds and
hundreds of millions of people who are
legitimate domain experts. The doctor
who knows what software her patient
panel needs. The logistics manager who
can draw the warehouse routing algorithm
on a whiteboard. The teacher who knows
exactly what adaptive learning her
students need. All of these domain
experts have been blocked by overloaded
software teams. Whether those are
overloaded software teams selling them
bad software or overloaded internal
software teams that have a backlog,
they're blocked. Fundamentally, these
domain experts have been locked out of
building by the translation layer. The
gap between knowing what should exist
and making it exist as a piece of
software. That translation is super
lossy. It's slow. It's expensive. And
that translation layer is going away.
It's gone. When a doctor can describe
what she needs and an agent can build it
in an afternoon, you're unlocking an
entirely new class of builder. Platforms
like Lovable, like Bolt, like Replet are
already putting production quality
development in the hands of non-coders.
And if you sit there and you think to
yourself, well, you know, I work at a
company. I don't know. Is this relevant
to me? I tell you it is. Because the
bigger the company, the more internal
ideas like this people have and do not
act on. They are the domain experts in
their corners of work, in their corners
of the business, and they can't solve
stuff because they've been locked out of
building. They don't have to be locked
out of building anymore. They can just
build. The scale of this is massive. We
are about to go to hundreds of millions
of builders. The total surface area of
human problems addressed by custom tools
is going to increase by an order of
magnitude, if not two or three. And so
the challenge for you on a people scale
is how can you start to build against
the problems that you see? Understand
what you're an expert in. If you're a
leader, how can you unlock your people
to do that? Give them the ambition. Give
them the tools. Take it seriously. This
is not pie in the sky thinking. People
are already doing this. Unlock number
three. Quality software is the default
today. It's not at a premium. This is
going to break so many developers minds.
I will apologize in advance. So much of
our software has been mediocre, right?
And we all know why. It's not because
engineers are bad. It's because we lack
the execution capacity to do great
testing, great documentation, great
security review, great performance
optimization, great accessibility, and
great visual polish. All on time, all
under budget. Look, these problems are
all agent verifiable. We can get them
done. They're just very very labor
intensive and for most of history we
have chosen not to prioritize them. Now
it's just table stakes. When agent
harnesses run testing and security
review and documentation, everything
else, not as expensive add-ons, but it's
a standard procedure, the baseline
quality of all software goes up
dramatically. Shipping a new feature is
not going to be a big deal anymore.
Shipping a feature with polish is not
going to be a big deal. Every shortcut
that we take today that we think is
rational is predicated on the idea that
building is hard and complicated and
that's going away. This is a massive
mindset shift. It takes actually
experiencing it. You need to find
someone on your team or maybe if you
have a team you need to get them
together and you work on this as a
project. Find a way to use agents in an
evalriven development loop. And I can
explain that in a loop that forces the
agent to work until it's tested a
complete finished working product. And
do that entire process until you have a
working product out the door. And then
you're going to realize even if the
first one isn't perfect, even if you get
a little bit better over time, what is
possible? For so long, the gap between
the top 5% of engineering teams and
everyone else has been polish. What they
can spend money on that we can't. Not
anymore. The quality of software in our
world is just going to be incredible.
And that is going to push
differentiation to product. What is the
amazing customer experience we bring?
And that's a challenge for us. But I
think it's a challenge we should be
excited about. Unlock number four. Every
company is going to be a platform. So
right now building and maintaining
integrations is a nightmare for anyone
in product, anyone in engineering. We
all hate integrations. That's been the
way we've done it for so long. Open claw
reminds us that that world is shifted
beneath our feet. Instead of thinking of
the world as our system is closed and we
have to build bridges, we need to think
of our system as fundamentally open
because agents will get into it. And we
can choose to do that reactively and let
them figure out a way maybe by using a
browser or we can choose to proactively
build integrations very very cheaply.
And what this means, by the way, is
every company is now a platform. You
don't have to be like, "All right, we're
going to spend lots and lots of money on
becoming a platform." And that's our big
product strategy the CPO rolled out.
Every company's a platform. Now, the
question for you is whether your
platform is sticky, whether you deliver
something that's valuable. That's what
matters. And and by the way, from a
human perspective, the implicit lesson
here, this is highle platform strategy
stuff. It typically operates at the VP
level and you don't talk about it to
IC's very much unless it's at one all
hands. Everybody needs to get fluent in
this kind of thinking. And the challenge
is to recognize that you need to
socialize that thinking down and really
take the time to talk about strategy in
a way that matters because people are
going to have this kind of impact. You
can have someone roll out two or three
integrations in an afternoon. If that's
the power they have, they should
probably know more about corporate
strategy. Unlock number five. The market
for ambition is through the roof right
now. Companies throw so much money on
the floor. Companies will look at a $10
million market and they won't touch it
because the engineering team costs 3
million a year. They'll look at an R&D
project with a 20% shot at success and
say, "Ah, I don't think it's worth
pursuing. Failures would cost us two
quarters in road maps. We're just not
going to do it." But remember the
structural changes. Execution cost is
going down by 10 times or 100 times. All
of those calculations flip. Now the $10
million market that's viable. The
experiment you could do five of them.
This is not a conversation about I can't
justify the investment anymore. CFOs
need to change their mindset here and
capturing those expanded opportunities.
Guess what it takes? It takes people.
People doing different work. People with
vision and domain expertise and creative
insight who can see the opportunities
and go after them aggressively. When you
are looking to tell people to raise
their sights and dream big, you are
tapping into something that's a little
bit like the childlike wonder we were
sold when we watched Disney and Pixar
films. You are looking for people who
could dream that kind of big because for
the first time in history, the cost of
execution is dropping that far. And
that's a huge deal. And so if you're
working with people, that dreaming part,
that's actually the part you need to get
them to buy. And I know that's hard
because so many of us are jaded. Like we
stopped at at the unlock where I talked
about software quality and I could hear
the engineers screaming, "It's not that
easy. You don't get it. I've been in a
lot of standups. I get it. I know that
the world that we live in is real, just
like I know that the world that
Anthropic lives in is also real." And
guess what? They ship software every
couple of days. And it's not because it
took a quarter to build it. The world is
already here. The AI native world I'm
talking about is not some pie in the sky
future. There are companies that operate
this way today. There are workers that
operate this way today. If you want to
move to that world, you can. But it's
going to take some massive changes in
our mindset. It's a people change
problem more than a tech change problem.
Unlock number six. The org needs to move
at the speed of insight. So I talked
about speed of execution and how we can
move fast. This is about speed of
insight. When we get a reliable insight
into something the customer wants,
right? Then we need to be acting on it.
We need to not be stuck in process. We
need to not be stuck in writing up the
documentation. We need not be stuck in
raising it to leadership. We need to go
and default to get it into code. Default
to get it into code. And that is such a
strange instinct for so many of us
because we've been told that code is
scary for so long. But that is the
direction that we're going. That is
where we are headed. And so if you want
to figure out how to thrive in this AI
world, it is going to be around this
ability to take maybe those childlike
instincts, the dreaming big, the
insights, etc., and recognize that the
cost of thinking has gone down so much
structurally that you now have the
ability to execute on those that you
never had before. And maybe you're a
leader and you have to convey that to
your team. Maybe you're an individual
and you have to believe in it for the
first time. Maybe you're a team lead and
you have to convince your team to give
it a shot. These are the real
conversations I see happening right now.
And they are much, much, much more
interesting than the boring layoff
conversations I see in the newspaper.
And here's what strikes me most about
the six unlocks I just described. None
of them are speculative. None require a
tech breakthrough. None depend on AGI.
They're all available today and still we
don't talk about them. And I want to
call out, by the way, these are not the
only ones. I'm giving you six that seem
like lowhanging fruit. But the nature of
this moment is that these new
applications are inherently
unpredictable. Nobody in 1995 looked at
cheap internet bandwidth and said, "Ah,
ride sharing, social media, gig
economy." The applications that mattered
most were the ones nobody could envision
from inside the old world. That's where
we are now. We're in the old world and
the unlocks I laid out are the obvious
ones, the lowhanging fruit to help us
move forward. Look, I'm not claiming
that there will never be displacement.
I'm not claiming that we will not have
hard human consequences. What I am
saying is that the idea that we are
living in a fixed pie world is
incorrect. The pi was artificially
constrained by execution cost. We
weren't limited by our ideas. We weren't
limited by our ambition. We were limited
by the cost of turning ideas into
products. If you remove that bottleneck
and the constraint shifts to our good
ideas, to our deep domain knowledge, to
our customer empathy, to our creative
vision. Well, those are all human
capacities and they are in drastically
short supply right now relative to what
we need to build. Think about what the
world needs and doesn't have. Think
about how much bad software people
tolerate. Think about how many niches
there are that we could never serve.
personalized education, clinical
decision support for individual
patients, financial planning for two
billion adults with a bank account, and
no adviser. These are unsolved economic
problems, not unsolved technical
problems. The cost of building software
has just been too high. Well, not
anymore. And the thing that hurts me the
most is that if you can't see this
opportunity, you cannot begin to plan
the path from here to there. The hardest
work ahead isn't a technical challenge.
It's figuring out what upskilling looks
like when the job isn't do the same
thing faster, but do something you've
never been asked to do before. That is a
different world. That is something we
need to get engaged on very seriously as
individuals working as team leads, as
directors, as VPs, as seuite. This is
the defining challenge of our
generation. And I want to challenge us
to recognize that what I am proposing
here is not dramatic. Even if it sounds
dramatic, it's simply the logical
outcome of execution cost for
intelligence dropping 10 or 100x, which
is what is going on. This is just
happening. And you can either engage
with this proactively, wrestle with the
people challenges, recognize we need to
upskill proactively, or it can happen
around you. I prefer to be proactive. I
think that's a good thing to do. If
that's you, too. I wrote up a bunch on
these six unlocks over on the substacks.
You can take action on those. And
frankly, I'll see you in the brave new
world. Build something cool. Raise your
ambitions. Tell me what you build in the
comments. Cheers.